Alright. We are
now live.
Awesome.
Hello, and welcome to today's episode of Rawkode
Live. I am your host, Rawkode.
Today, we are gonna be taking a look
at Dagger.
It's a new programmable deployment system. That's a
little bit vague, but we're gonna dive into
that in just a moment.
First, we've a little bit of housekeeping.
If you are not subscribed to the YouTube
channel, just now would be a great time
to do that. Click the bell and you
will get alerts for all new episodes of
Rawkode Live. There are episodes weekly and we
try to explore as much of the software
available to us on the cloud native landscape
together.
It is vast, so we will do our
best to present it in a nice, digestible,
fun, and educational way.
If you want to chat with other cloud
native enthusiasts, you can join us on the
Discord server at Rawkode.chat.
There are now over 400 of us in
there talking all things Kubernetes, cloud native, and
everything in between.
Come and join us, say hello, and I
look forward to meeting you.
Okay. Now for today,
to guide us into our introduction to Dagger,
I'm joined by Solomon and Andrea from the
Dagger team. Hello, both. How are you doing?
Hello.
Hey. Thank you. Good to hear.
Thank you both for for joining me today.
If we just do a quick round of
introductions,
we'll start with you, Solomon, since you're next
to me, and then we'll move on to
Andrea.
Hi. I'm the I'm Solomon. I'm the cofounder
of Dagger, and before that, cofounder of Docker.
And, hopefully,
not gonna go through any more startup names
that start with d and finish with r.
Awesome. Thank you. Andrea?
Yeah. Hi. I'm Andrea. I'm the cofounder of
Dagger. And before that, I was neuro engineer
at Docker. So I worked in Docker for
seven years or so. I was part of
the original team with, Selman and Sam. He's
not around.
Awesome. Well, thank you very much. Yeah. There's
Oh, sorry. You go. There's three of us.
Yeah. There's three of us. And Sam,
Andrea just mentioned,
had more important things to do than hang
out with us.
Am not offended whatsoever.
It's awesome to have you both here and,
you know, maybe in a future episode, we'll
get all three of you together for a
bit of fun as well. But for today,
we're gonna explore and introduce our audience here
to Dagger.
And I think the best thing to do
would be start with a little bit of
a TLDR.
What is Dagger?
Sure. So Dagger is
your application delivery super glue. So it it
takes all the existing tools and systems that
you already use to deliver your app. Could
be your source control, your build,
your CI,
your Kubernetes cluster, your Lambda functions,
whatever it is that you need to ship
the app to the cloud,
and it helps you tie them all together
in one
place, in one system that you can look
at and manage with a simple interface.
Usually, you already do that
with a bunch of scripts
and manual operations.
And later, those scripts and manual operations,
when your application grows, you call them a
platform,
but they're still mostly scripts and manual operations.
And so we that's your glue, and usually
the glue has problems.
It's hard to change.
You forget how it works because the person
who wrote it left,
and so it slows you down.
And so we replace that unreliable glue with
a better glue. Basically, that's what Dagger is.
Alright.
So Dagger is bash for the cloud native
editor. Is that is that a nice way
to summarize that?
I think that would be an accurate way
to summarize it. Yeah.
Yeah. Because it's programmable. In Bash, it's programmable.
Yeah. And just one more thing. I think
that what we're aiming for is to solve
the problem of making application delivery actually programmable.
Like, it's actually code.
And right now, we're almost there as a
as an ecosystem,
but we're so we're getting just
just close enough that we're in the uncanny
valley. You know? It's a little almost like
code, but it's not actually like code, and
so it's weird. So we're trying to bridge
that gap so it's actually really like code.
Yeah.
Okay. Can we then maybe give a
very concrete example of a a use case
for Dagger?
Like, what you know, as a an application
developer working with cloud native technologies
and I wanna do something with Dagger, what
would that something be? What's a good use
case?
So from the point of view of the
developer,
basically, what you want is something like Heroku,
except,
that actually works with the application you have.
And so if you're you if you're lucky,
you can actually use Heroku or something like
it for the whole thing. But most of
us are not so lucky because not everything
fits in something like Heroku,
and so you end up, you know, back
with the glue. And so, what a developer
wants is
one command
or one click, and there's a staging environment.
You know? There's a pull request.
Boom. I've got another environment to review in
the production like environment if that works. And,
of course, then I wanna continuously deploy to
to production. But just this idea of defining
one place,
what does an environment look like with everything
running together, and then how do I get
how do I get one of those? You
know? So from the developer's point of view,
that's what you get. And from the delivery
person
point of view, so DevOps
person, the DevOps team, the platform team, whatever
you wanna call them, the SREs, the expert
knows how to deliver.
You wanna be able to program
that exactly the way you want it and
change it over time, you know, to to
improve your infrastructure,
to improve the workflow, whatever, without having to
change
the disrupt
the the workflow of the developer every time.
And so you kind of have this separation
of concern. So there's two different users,
interacting with Dagger.
One at the front end, the developer wants
to deploy, and then one at the back
end, you know, the delivery expert who wants
to customize
the the deployment.
Awesome.
So then pick your application, pick your stack.
You know?
Whatever it is, you wanna be able to
get a staging environment of it with Dagger.
Okay.
Awesome.
That's a a nice description of it there.
I like that the crosses the developer and
the operational side of things together and tries
to get this concrete representation.
I think you said what an environment is
and how to deploy my application and so
forth. Yeah. You mentioned that it is programmable,
and I I know that this is is
built on Q. Do you wanna maybe
just give us
you know, they need to tell us what
Q is, but maybe why you went down
the road of using Q for for Dagger?
Sure. So
Dagger is built on two really important components,
both of which both of which are open
source.
One is Q,
and it's a programming language. So when you
program
your,
delivery environment,
It's not like Bash. It's not Bash scripts.
Instead of Bash scripts, you write Q. There
might still be Bash scripts in there. You
can orchestrate
those Bash scripts if you want.
But Q is a declarative language that lets
you declaratively describe what the nodes of your,
delivery graph are and how they're connected. And
the key insight is that delivery
is a graph.
And so CUE is a language that works
very well to describe a graph and how
the pieces of a graph are connected. So,
anyway, we can go into more detail later,
but,
the other piece is build kit. And that's
the part that actually runs the runs the
operations in the graph. Because with queue, you
can describe
what what you wanna deploy. You can even
describe
how.
But at some point,
something needs to actually happen to deploy, and
queue won't do that. You need an engine
to interpret those those
that that that description and actually do it.
That's where BuildKit comes in. And BuildKit comes
out of Docker,
and it basically lets you orchestrate really powerful,
pipelines of operations with running in containers.
And plugging in inputs and outputs from those
operations,
you get built in caching.
It's it's very, very powerful. So Q plus
build kit, that's the
the tech foundation of Dagger.
Well, I'm a a huge fan of Q,
and I love seeing it in the wild.
So this is really exciting for me. And
I haven't actually until Dagger, I've never heard
of anyone using BuildKits kind of Dag
environment or programmability or whatever you wanna call
it. And an application that would be to
be
a bunch of tasks to run. It's normally
just building a container image, but you kinda
just made a bit more generic, I guess.
And it seems to be working really well.
So
I think
That yep. Sorry. That's that's a testament to
how good the build kit
developers are. You know? They basically,
their job was, hey. Can you just make
Docker build less terrible? And and they just
felt like
just something that there was so much more
than that. So we're just taking advantage of
it the way we think it should.
And I guess that explains the name Dagger.
It's a dag.
Is is it that simple?
Yes.
Awesome. Alright. Well, I invited you on here
to get hands on with Dagger, not to
talk about it too much, but thank you
for using a little bit of time there
to share that.
I hope our audience appreciates that and now
has a little bit of a clue of
what we're gonna be diving into today. So
I am gonna pop my screen share up.
What we have here is the Dagger documentation,
which you have kindly tweeted out in the
last twenty four hours that you're very worried
about someone going through this. So it's gonna
be a lot of fun as we we
work our way.
So Just because we've seen other people go
through it, we know what happens. So
Alright.
The Dagger is alpha. It's very much in
the the testing experimentation
phase. I'm not sure how you wanna describe
that. But if people do wanna get access
to this after watching this video, what is
the the procedure there? Can they reach out?
Is it open alpha? Or is it?
Absolutely. Yeah. Dagger.io.
Just go there. Click request access. There's a
very short form,
and then you're on the waiting list. And,
we're
sending invites as fast as we can. GitHub,
if you can hear us, we can only
send 50 invitations per day. That's the bottleneck.
So, yes, that's the way to to join.
Alright. Awesome. Yeah. Dagger.i0
for everyone who wants to request access after
working or watching us go through today's demo.
All right. I'm gonna move on to step
one, which I'm assuming is to install Dagger.
I see that we have a brew tap
here
and I'm gonna get this running
quickly.
I made the horrible mistake last week, maybe
ten days ago of installing Mac OS Monterey
and had to wipe my machine about one
hour after it because nothing worked. So
it's been a fun last week having to
solve every single tool in the world again.
But hopefully, brew won't take too long with
this.
Well, as you know, I'm on an iPad,
so I don't have any of those problems.
I have all sorts of other problems.
Yeah.
We've already discovered a few of those with
the streaming software so far. That's been a
whole lot of fun. So if you could
see Solomon's lips moving and no words coming
out of his mouth, it's because he touched
his iPad.
Alright. Let's assume that is good to pull
down just now. Let's pull in that baiter
release. Yeah. There we go.
Alright.
Oh, my computer is struggling. There we go.
Cural bash is also an option for anyone
who's on Linux.
And then you can also pull down the
release. All pretty standard stuff so far.
Oh, that's a expander.
Let's go on to our basic usage here.
So I have Dagger on my machine.
Let's see if I run it.
There we go.
We got a whole bunch of sub commands
here.
Is there anything interesting that you wanna point
out before we work through the little tutorial
that we have?
Yes. One thing I wanna point out is
some of these commands, if you run them,
they will panic and say nothing. And
we have we have merged deploy requests. They're
hiding them, but I don't think we've released
it yet.
Alright. I mean, the main thing is it
it changes a lot. We're we're still iterating
based on feedback. So the most important one
is up.
Alright. Dagger up. I also see a Dagger
login and a Dagger log out. Is that
an indication that there's a cloud component to
Dagger that runs my tasks for me?
So, no. It doesn't run the tasks for
you.
We're it's we're never gonna run the tasks
for you. It's always going to be a
% on your infrastructure.
But, optionally,
there will be a cloud service that you
can connect all of your Dagger engines to
and tells you interesting things about it and
lets you control them as a fleet. But
it's always gonna be kind of optional management
and never actual infrastructure.
Got
it. Okay.
Also, you type Dagger login, that Dagger login,
it will panic and say not implemented.
I know you're gonna have to fight the
urge to take that, but I'll do my
best.
Alright. We got a a couple of comments
there. So first one is let me drag
that away from your head there, Andrea. And
Nuno says, it's not Admiral Dagger. He's very
disappointed.
I'm not sure if I should know what
Admiral Dagger is. I feel like there's maybe
some
sci fi reference that I'm gonna purely miss,
but cool.
DS has got a question. This sounds like
a CD pipeline. How does Dagger differ from
other continuous delivery platforms? Do you wanna tackle
that now, or do you wanna wait till
after the demo?
Sure. I mean, I can maybe a few
pointers now, and we can dive in later.
But one is it's programmable.
So you can actually,
you can you can express
an arbitrarily complex,
delivery workflow in code, and you can actually
export it as a package, and someone else
can import it. And it actually works the
way you would expect.
That's one big difference.
Native
artifact support and encrypted support secret support. So
you can compose not just the flow of
values.
You're like, oh, the a little JSON object
can go from step one to step two.
Great. You can actually compose artifacts.
And those artifacts can be injected by the
user. They can be generated on the fly.
They can be downloaded from elsewhere, but you
can actually plug these components together, and you
get a you get a chain of artifacts,
bundled into,
a reusable software component. To our knowledge, nobody
else does that.
But I guess that's a little abstract maybe.
So I'll just
kick that can down the road.
Okay. Well, let's clone the exam. Yeah. Sorry.
On you go. I'll clone Ashish now if
you wanna say something else there.
No. No.
I I talk a lot, so I gotta
stop myself at some point.
It's all good. Alright. We've got three examples
here. We clone this. The first one we're
gonna be tackling from this tutorial is the
to do application.
Let's just take a look at it.
I've always been really bad at reading docs.
I always just wanna run the thing. So
I'm gonna pop open Versus Code
and we'll see what we've got in this
directory.
Come on, computer.
Getting there. I'm not sure why it's struggling
today.
Okay.
This is a a node application, I'm assuming,
by this package dot JSON.
If my computer catches up, we'll see it.
It is alright. It's a React to do
application. I think I've seen a thousand of
these in my lifetime.
Mhmm.
Oh, beach ball, that's not good.
No. Okay. Well, cool. We've got a Docker
file, which is on this
playing catch up with my computer today.
Maybe I should get an iPad. So that's
intentionally
very simple and almost boring
React app that you could substitute with your
own
if you want.
Yeah. So this is just a Dagger.
This is just showing how to use Dagger,
I guess, to to build a node application
container image. Does it do anything else? Like
So we actually it so
well, you'll see. But Yeah. Yes, it does
more. You can just tell me to shop
shop and read the docs. That's perfectly acceptable
answer here.
Alright. Dockerfile,
like, it's pretty standard. Right? This is the
There's nothing yes. Nothing special on that Dockerfile.
We didn't I don't think we even wrote
that Dockerfile. I think it's the standard one
from the example. Right? I'm
not sure, actually.
Okay. And we have don't we have.
Just the Docker file. Nothing. Just the yeah.
Yeah. That script is actually that that there's
a little story behind that one, but
I I will wait.
I'm curious I'm curious to see see
what conclusion you you
you reach.
Alright. Alright. We have let me fix your
bash header here. So user
and ENB bash.
Oh, go ahead and think about interruptibility here.
First pull request.
Alright. So it's looking for some sort of
keys fail
and does Dagger help?
H.
This is using the h two.
Yeah. I don't know what's going on here.
Should I should this should this make sense
to me?
No. No. There should be a comment at
the top saying, you can ignore this. You
should ignore this. You're gonna run you're you're
gonna have to run it later, and then
the the tutorial actually explains
what it does. Alright. This PR will be
pending after this call. There we go.
Yes.
So I think the first thing that's jumping
out to me, like this is just a
standard JavaScript application with a package dot JSON,
some random script you've already told me I
can ignore with some JavaScript code.
We do have a dot Dagger file. That's
the only thing that appears to be different.
So the way that we work and interact
with Dagger, is it through this dot Dagger
directory, or is this something else I should
ignore?
Correct. No. That's it. But
Alright. The answer is easily easily answered by
reading the next the next paragraph of the
docs. We don't need docs. I'm gonna make
this up.
So Okay. Go. Go. I see values fail,
which which makes me think of helm.
And then we've got some queue files.
I can see there's a YARN package, an
s three package. Okay.
I know what this is.
So this is a Dagger.
What would you call it? Would it be
a Dagger manifest, a Dagger package? Is it
just a do you have a name for
it? Yeah.
It's a plan. A plan. Dagger plan. Oh,
in fact, it's right there in front of
me in the the directory. Okay. This is
a Dagger plan that builds a container image,
pushes it to
and then
does a YARN
publish, guess, upload it to s three and
I get a sapphic website. Is that close?
No. Actually, it does less than that. The
the it only
it it deploys
a a mini staging environment of your React
application,
just the front end,
on a shared s three bucket.
And the the ECR thing
is actually an implementation detail of
if you go to the names file
so the names file, that's a little a
custom custom logic
written by the delivery expert to run,
you know, the the funny name generator from
from Docker, you know, the container names? Mhmm.
So it actually runs
a Docker image
with that little that code that name generator
inside it, and that spits out dynamically a
cute name, and then it injects that in
the configuration.
And it does that so that everyone doing
the tutorial can deploy the same s three
bucket, which is ours, and everyone has a
separate little directory in that s three bucket.
So it's sort of like a poor man's
multitenancy
so that you can deploy something right now,
basically,
on our s three credentials. So you can
actually deploy something without having to fiddle around
with infrastructure.
Alright. I got yelled out from the audience
because I didn't drag my terminal up so
they could see the last line, so I
have now fixed that. Apologies at all.
And I should know better. I do that
every single day.
Okay. So we've got funny names. We've got
a Dagger plan.
I mean, I could continue to ignore the
docs and be entirely useless and just run
a dagger up and see what happens.
Dagger up. Yes. Run dagger up.
Alright. So it's telling me that it tried
to load some identity from this dagger keys
fail, a script that you told me to
ignore. So okay. Exactly. So you should run
it. Should run it, but ignore it. Ignore
the content that just ran it.
Run it without reading it.
It sounds like a really bad idea, but
okay.
Yeah. Let let me explain let me explain
what you're doing. So by the way, the
docs explained this. So the the so here's
our thinking. Oh, we should do a tutorial
where you can do something really easy, really
quickly from just right away.
But oh, but how would we do that?
How do we get you to deploy something
without telling you, oh, first, go to your
Amazon account and, you know, get some credentials
and inject them. So what we did is
we preconfigured
an environment,
with our own s three credentials properly locked
down so you can't just, like, do stupid
things. You can only upload to that one
s three bucket, and then we preloaded it
in the environment in the Dagger environment. So
when you run Dagger up, you're actually
some of the input values are preconfigured by
us.
And that's actually a really useful collaboration
pattern where your
infrastructure team can preconfigure things for you. And
then you by running Dagger up, you finish
deployment.
And so you get this kind of
Heroku like experience where you don't have to
know all the credentials. The problem is in
this usually, you do this in a small
team or in a team where everyone knows
each other and someone decides, okay. This person
has access to the credentials and this other
person and no one else does. In this
case, it's kind of a weird special case.
We want the whole world to be able
to deploy
to our s three bucket, and that's actually
not supported by Dagger maybe for obvious reasons.
So,
like, because Dagger it will not allow us
to not encrypt
the, the s three credentials.
You know what I mean? So, basically, our
workaround is to give the whole world access
to this particular private key that is used
only for encrypting these s three credentials. And
so the script basically adds to your key
chain this special key that will give you
access
to the tutorial credentials. So, basically, it's a
script to hack the tutorial environment.
Okay. So you have a published s three
bucket. Rename it to hack tutorial that I
say to be more then everyone would run
it for sure. Exactly.
Alright. So there's an s three bucket that
you provisioned. You're distributing the private key, which
gives us access to the encrypted secret for
Dagger to be able to upload my
application to it. Okay. Right.
Let's try Dagger up again.
Oh, and I should really have Docker running,
shouldn't I?
Yes. You can also have a build kit
daemon. You only just need build kit. So
if you have a a non Docker build
kit setup that that sometimes happens,
we support that too. You just need build
kit.
Alright. Okay.
Well, we'll just give Docker a few seconds
to start up, and I will use that
opportunity to read the documentation there.
So look at that. The next line, import
the tutorial.
Alright. Okay. So we've done this now. Actually,
yeah.
Yeah. It's basically exactly what I said, but
in written form. Well, it's nicer to hear
it from you than it is to read
it from the the documentation,
so I'll take it.
I already mentioned I like talking, so not
a problem.
And then next command is Dagger up. Assuming
I started Docker, it's on the way,
and I think we kinda covered what we
expect to happen here. So Mhmm. We also
have access to a Dagger list, which is
going to, I guess, list all of our
plans or environments as it says here.
Yeah. So yeah. So
everything happens in an environment,
and Dagger lists lists your environments. And then
each environment has a plan, which is like
the source code of the environment. It defines
what it should do.
Alright. Awesome.
And then we got input less. Okay. I
wanna be able to run these Dagger commands,
so I am not gonna
jump ahead here.
What we'll do is we'll try our Dagger
up again.
It's working. There we go. The first time
it's gonna be a little bit slow because
it's starting up build kit. So it's gonna
take like fifteen seconds or so, but it
should be fast more time.
Yes. Those get runs as a spawn container
on the Docker system, doesn't it? And then
yeah. Okay. Yep. That's how we get all
of that funky caching stuff that you mentioned
about earlier.
Yep. No. No. That's correct. Because of Docker
desktop, we all have access to build kit
already. Very
convenient. Correct.
Also,
any modern CI
system has some sort of way to run
containers, we can piggyback on that too. So
you can embed Dagger in,
you know, your GitLab or GitHub actions setup.
No problem,
which is very useful.
Okay. So
let's
let's see what it's doing here.
Scroll up. So it generated our funny name.
So does that mean that I've pulled down
that container image from ECR and actually got
it to spell a name?
We got something to do with source computing
and completed. I don't really know that yet.
We got our app source to the same
thing.
Should I know what that is or do
we skip past that?
No.
You don't need well, as the as the
developer who just wants to deploy your thing,
you don't need to know what's going on.
Alright. Okay. So this now looks like this
is doing our container image build based on
our Docker file perhaps.
Yep.
Now it's there. So we just have to
wait now for a Yarn install. Those are
notoriously quick. Right?
I don't know if the sarcasm came across
there, but it was Yes. It did.
We knew exactly what you're talking about.
Yeah. Another type of sat watching NPM installs
or Yarn install. Not
it's actually not building that from the the
the Dockerfile. I I don't think that the
what it's doing here is it's actually
building a container on the fly
that will then perform the YARN build. So
it's basically yeah. It's building
a lot of the components that you saw,
like the s three component and the YARN
component. They do they do things in containers.
And so the developer of those packages,
at some point, specified
what that container should be and how to
build it. And so the first time you
run,
an an an Netlify operation, for example, or,
no. Sorry. What am I saying? In this
case, it's s three an s three operation
or or Yarn operation,
you're
you're building the container as the author of
the package specified. And then it's all cash,
so it will be fast.
Nice.
Alright. Well, since we've got a moment because
of this YARN install,
we'll just pop back over here because that's
where I left my little thing here. That's
the wrong one. Oh, funny that his comment
came out at the same time, so I'll
show both at the same time. There's an
episode of the podcast being released this Thursday
of which I believe, Solomon, you had the
honor of chatting with with Pop. Right? Yes.
So if you wanna watch that or see
an announcement when it launches, you can follow
podcast pop on Twitter.
And I've heard it's it's pretty good. It's
just surprising for Pop because his material is
crap.
Sorry, Dan. I just I just you bend
a pineapple pizza and I'm still raging about
it, mate. Like, I can't believe you threw
a whole pineapple pizza in the bin, but
I'll I'll hold it back.
You should definitely watch that episode if you
wanna see what happens
when you record a
when you record a a podcast.
On an iPad? Outdoors without without checking on
an iPad. I was on an iPad, but
it did not crash.
But, I I did do it outdoors and
did not check the weather forecast first. So
Was it stormy, rainy, snowy? Which random weather
did you get for the day? Thunderstorm.
First thunder and then and thunder, and I
thought, oh, that was noisy. Sorry. And then
I didn't even think to
go for cover. So later it went.
And now you know.
Well, Yaron is now telling me that I
have a problem with my network so that's
wonderful as well.
Oh, I think we actually have that issue.
It's the Yaron registry thing. Right?
It might be a Yaron registry issue. If
we ignore it, will it go away?
Maybe you try rerunning.
You say you don't wanna give it thirty
seconds? You want you want me to control
c?
I don't know. Either way, recall.
Alright. Well, The
sad thing is if we if you control
c now and you're on you where you're
not gonna get cached,
the the the
you know, built it only caches a successful
operation. So if you if you control c
now, you're gonna have to rerun everything.
Of course.
So it's a dilemma.
I know. It's
catch 22.
Because we could just run it again and
get presented with the same trouble with my
network connection.
I'm sorry. Solomon likes to talk. We'll just
let you go. What if you go for
us?
What should I talk about? Let's see.
Well, one thing we could do is maybe
I don't know if your setup
supports it. I mean, I know on an
iPad, I can do it, but,
maybe while it's running,
maybe you can look at some code at
the same time, and I can comment the
the plan, actually, the source code of
the source code describing
what's actually happening on the screen. Right? Yeah.
Alright. Let's take a look at the queue
then. Right.
So if you look at main dot queue,
I'll show you the line that's currently having
trouble. We can we can,
do a little virtual
troubleshooting.
So I think that's the one. So it's
a Yarn it's Yarn dot package. So we're
basically here declaratively saying,
there's a Yarn package here in, one of
the nodes in our graph is a Yarn
package. And so let's wire up that YARN
package with the correct inputs and outputs.
And so
it's basically gonna plug in source code as
an input, and it's going to run a
YARN build in a container and spit out
the build directory as an output, and then
you can wire that. So, for example,
a little lower, you see s three bucket?
So that's another node in the graph. It's
an s three object that's gonna be synchronized,
up to the s three API. So you
give it an input, which is an artifact,
and and that's gonna sync that up to
the the s three bucket as specified. And
you can see the source key for that
bucket
is app dot build, which is
of reference to
the build key in in the Yarn package,
if that makes sense. So it's basically that
line right here.
That's a link in the in the DAG.
This is what causes this to have a
dependency of the app Yarn dot package.
Right. It's basically saying take the take the
the build the Yarn build
and
stick it into the s three object as
its contents.
And so
then the Dagger engine loads that and sees,
okay. That's a dependency. From there, it will
run things in the correct order. It will
parallelize
if if needed, etcetera.
Or or rather, it will
arrange for Billkit to do that because Billkit
does most of the heavy lifting.
Okay. So
because I have a little bit of a
familiarity with q, why don't we kinda dig
into this this specific couple of lines and
let's dig into what's actually happening with these
lines. So this is in queue, this is
a module called yarn with a definition called
package. So that means that Dagger has explored
some sort of schema definition to say this
is what a package looks like.
What we are defining here is that the
source as the source which
comes to another line, we'll skip that for
now.
But there's nothing here, this is entirely declarative.
Right? This is just me saying that a
YARN package So
that means that the Dagger engine
understands what a YARN package is and how
to work with that. So I'm assuming Dagger
has a few of these integrations and maybe
we could talk about the ones that are
available.
Sure. Yeah. Actually, you could look at the
source code of YARN. That's a good example
because we developed it, but we developed it
in queue using the regular,
Dagger APIs. And so anyone can develop it.
And, actually, just earlier today on the Discord,
someone said they have a pull request they
wanna open for
a Maven integration, I think,
and they wrote it themselves. And so,
looking at the YARN package would be actually
very
useful because that's a big differentiator
of Dagger. Actually, that's what I should have
answered earlier in the question, why is it
different from CD?
Well, it's a good example of the programmable
thing. Like, in Go
or in Python or in JavaScript or whatever,
any real programmable
environment, any real platform, you write code.
You know, you have your program, like your
main function or whatever. And then at some
point, you think, oh, that part could be,
moved into a reusable package, and I can
import the package, but then maybe someone else
can or me later. And you do that.
And your main configure your main, sorry, your
main function
is written in Go, for example, and your
package is written in Go. It's all Go.
You know, the library is Go, and the
main thing is Go. And then you kinda
it can be Go all the way down
because the library can import another library, etcetera.
That's basically how it's supposed to work. But
if you're writing,
like, a a CD YAML thing, that's not
how it actually works. You know?
You have a YAML your main thing
is YAML,
and then the next level is maybe Docker
containers or shell scripts, then there's no third
layer down. You know? So there's no you
can't take your YAML and spit it out
into a sub YAML or a sub sub
YAML and expect it to work the way
you would want. And same with Terraform.
You know? You have Terraform HCL configurations,
which compose,
Terraform providers. But Terraform providers are not written
in HCL,
so you can't spin off part of your
HCL and say, oh, I'll make that a
provider now. Oh, and how about a sub
sub provider?
There's modules,
which are a separate thing, but they're kind
of a superficial
it's always two
different layers of programming. Right? And writing a
provider for ter provider for Terraform is more
like developing a driver.
You know?
Sure. Can write any driver for any
peripheral,
but it's not you know, you're not just
gonna do it on the fly as you
develop your application. You know? No one has
time for that. So
what Dagger does, it's it's just basically queue
on one side and queue on the other.
And you spin out your queue thing into
another queue thing and then they import each
other and you can keep going down
and it just works the way you you
would expect.
Awesome.
Alright. Well, I've pulled up the the yarn
package that you mentioned.
There is. I'm kind of curious like,
you know, as Dagger starts to evolve and
you start to approach GA and such like
that, do you see or are you going
to be encouraging pull requests to the standard
lib to support every tool in the world?
Do you see that being something that there's
third party slash external
packages
or libraries? Yeah. How do you envisage that
working?
So right now, yeah, we do encourage pull
requests because
it's the only practical way right now
to share,
you know,
a package like this one with everyone using
Dagger.
But that's temporary because the queue developers
are some of which I think are listening
right now,
are actively developing queue modules.
So right now, there's kind of the basic
infrastructure for importing. You can actually import
you can define queue packages. You can import
them. I mean, we're doing it right now.
But,
what's missing is the, the discovery and distribution
system. Like, with Go, you can't discover a
queue module anywhere and then download it and
then manage versions and upgrades, etcetera. So that's
what's being developed now,
heavily inspired by Go,
which is not surprising because a lot of
the queue developers are also Go developers. So,
basically, soon, you'll be able to be able
to queue get or whatever.
And then you could you know, then as
a result,
anyone could publish their package anywhere they want,
like, their own GitHub repo, and you can
just import it right here. So
then
there will be two ways to share and
reuse packages, and probably
our built in standard library will
play more of a curation
role.
You know? Like,
you can go out there and find any
package for anything. But if you wanna play
it safe and you wanna know there's a
set like, a distribution of things that are
tested together and are
known to work together, then kind of like,
I guess, a Linux distribution.
Right? But for queue configurations,
then you just you you play it safe
and you import our standard library or you
can mix and match. You know?
Awesome.
Brian Carrollton shared something with me the other
day that I thought was really cool. We're
we both do a lot of stuff in
the queue stuff as we both do a
lot of stuff with queue as well, but
someone compares a queue to web assembly and
was running it in their browser, which I
thought was a a really cool use case
for doing that.
Yeah. Okay.
Compared Q to what's sorry. I missed Someone
compiled
Q using tiny go as a web consent
a a web assembly and was using the
the Q API inside the browser, which I
thought was a really cool application of it
as well.
Yeah. It was really nice. Yeah. That is
cool. Yeah. There is all there is also
there is a an interactive Q playground that
actually runs in WebAssembly.
I think it's on the official Q website.
It works really well. Oh, nice.
I've actually used that, and I never thought
about how it worked before. But now that
you mentioned, of course, I was using WebAssembly.
So
okay. So
are we feeling confident? Do what do we
wanna look at my terminal?
I mean, I can't speak for the YARN
registry, but
sure, I believe in them. It worked.
Yay. There
we go. We talk enough and then we
come back and magic things happen. So
let's try and work out what actually happened
here. So we That's my life philosophy.
Yeah. It's like that x k c d
comic was the it's compiling and the chair
sword fighting. Like, it's still relevant today as
ever was even though we don't compile as
much.
It's like that, but if you stop sword
fighting, it stops compiling.
Exactly.
Alright. So we got our Alpine
image ability stuff. We got our yarn, which
eventually did finish. We can see here that
it does a build
and
the build output finishes here.
App.build
says we're complete. That's our dependency then that
we noticed and say that the queue failed.
So this now is an artifact that's available.
We then perform the next step in the
DAG, which is the s three bucket, which
completes.
And then
is this just I don't know why it's
doing things there, but it's just just uploading
the output to Amazon s three. I think
that's maybe what happened there. Yep.
Alright.
Now
there was a command and we can already
kinda see the output from it here, but
there was a in the documentation, a Dagger
output list. Was that right?
Mhmm. Yep.
Or or that was input list, I assume
an output will work too. And that's just
what this is. Is this a can to,
like, what we expect from Pulumi output, Terraform
output? It's just a variable that we wanna
expose or present to whoever's consuming Dagger?
Yep. Pretty much.
The the the nice thing is right now
that the engine can do more than the
command line tool can in terms of presentation.
So for example and you could have an
output artifact,
and,
you could have it copied or mounted into
your local directory as a result. So you
could have, for example,
if if you want if you wanted and
if the CLI supported it,
you could you could have,
you know, the the the
result of the YARN build,
copied to somewhere in your local directory as
a intermediary
artifact, you know, to inspect or whatever.
Okay.
Let's browse to it. Let's see if it
worked.
We got busy and human.
If actually Solid name. The link below that.
If you go back on the output list.
Yeah. That was the bucket URL. Good catch.
Oh.
Yeah. We should probably we need to Oh,
and then I I I went from that
way anyway. There we go.
We have our React to do application.
Awesome.
Yay.
Okay. So these are the outputs.
I'm as those are I'm assuming those are
just defined in the queue file and maybe
we can take a look at exactly what
actually happened there. We have a whole bunch
of inputs now. I don't remember seeing any
inputs, but I'm assuming these are just all
of the things that I could provide in
my queue
plan
Yeah. The Dagger plan to be able to
override or change the way that this plan
works
roughly?
Yep. Yes.
Yeah. So packages can define inputs. So for
example, when you the s three bucket part,
all, you know, all the inputs within s
three bucket, that was actually defined in the
s three package,
like access key, secret key, etcetera.
Okay.
And the way secrets work in Dagger is
just they're just encrypted, and you have to
distribute the key to people and
Right. So that's that's what the each thing
was doing. Right.
There's Dagger input
Dagger input secret
to set a to inject a new secret
value, Dagger input dear to inject a local
directory,
etcetera, etcetera.
And Dagger input secret will take care of
the encryption part for you.
Awesome. And, yeah, then on on the other
end, you you need to distribute keys
via
a UI that is not yet implemented.
Sweet.
Alright. We got a question from Noel. I
don't understand, but maybe you will.
So input values support both the value or
the pointer.
I'm not sure if that's cool. So the
asterisk the the asterisk, that's a queue syntax
thing. It means default value.
Oh, that was a queue question. Got it.
Okay. Well, I don't know, actually. I I
I'm just inferring from the from the comment.
I I
there there's no pointers in queue. That's for
sure. Yeah. There we go. Okay. Yeah.
Oh, I see. Yeah. I don't know what
what is that? Yeah. That's that's mostly just,
an unpolished UI thing, but,
that's queue saying in very rough ways that
we should hide.
This comes from the engine saying,
by default, it would be an empty list,
and it actually is an empty list. So,
basically empty lists.
Yeah. I do like this constraint model that
Q presents. So like, yeah, think here's a
really nice example where we're seeing that this
defaults to both, but really we accept any
string value. Like, yeah, Q is is a
really cool tool. I I think it's really
awesome that Dagger uses that under the hood.
There's just the the potential is just huge.
And, honestly, we it's just
the frustration is, you know, there's a whole
year worth of work just to kind of
build up to the potential of of queue
in terms of presentation.
Like, for example, we have an earlier prototype,
which is not open source, but we're gonna
transpose it into Dagger,
which generates from your queue configuration a complete
interactive web interface.
So you get if you ever used Heroku,
for example,
there's this add on system.
You know, you could say, a database,
and then you have this nice web panel
to configure your database.
And each add on has its own custom
made panel to configure things specific to that.
Right? So let's say you wanna add,
for example, an s three bucket, then it
would ask for your s Amazon credentials and
the name of the bucket, whatever.
Here,
that's all specified in the queue configuration.
So we have this rough
command line interface to that, Dagger input list,
Dagger output list, and, you know, sometimes it
says weird things like asterisk,
you know, brackets, etcetera. We actually have this
prototype where we generate. We do the same
thing as those add on, web interfaces, but
generated.
So you would from this, you would get
a little web interface,
that shows you everything I just said in
in a in a nice web
form specific to exactly that. So it's it's
really magical. Personally,
I'm really impatient to bring it back
because you write 10 lines of queue, and
you just develop the web interface for your
deployment thing. It's it's really pretty cool.
Yeah. I'm really frustrated that you said all
that because I've tried to build some for
as a a command line application for some
of my own queue stuff and failed miserably.
So, you know, if you ever open source
that up, I'm gonna steal all of it
completely.
I
the plan is to make it available in
the open in in Dagger. So, yes, open
source. Yeah. That would be awesome. Yeah.
My use case isn't important. I'll share that
with you another day. But, yeah, really cool
that you build that kind of tooling. One
it's one of the things that QAPI does
try to make easier. I'll just blame my
own limited skill set for failing miserably.
But we've only looked at the
to do application there. So let's let's jump
through a couple more of these Okay. Learn
Dagger things. Anyone watching does have any questions,
please feel free to drop them in the
comments section and we will do our best
to answer them. I mean, I will I
will proxy the question for you, but we
will get some really awesome answers here.
Okay. So we did some basic usage to
do application.
We did a Yarn build. We able to
do the test three. We were able to
browse through it. Already
very, very cool system. So Dagger one zero
two is where we dive into what an
environment is.
So
can we think of this as just
Pulumi stacks, TerraForm,
whatever they call them. I can't remember these
days. Like,
an environment being staging production.
It's it's Yep. Yep. Okay. That's where it
is. Yep.
Alright.
So
I should probably be reading this with a
bit more vigilance, but I'm gonna keep going
and going and going.
So this wants me to build, like, a
new
directory in order to do application,
add a new source dot Dagger,
or is this building out the same thing
that we kind of just already ran but
in a different way?
It's so what we ran is one environment
called s three that was preloaded,
and we're gonna create a second environment called
multi bucket that
deploys to s three and Netlify.
So guess yep. Yep.
Okay.
So it's guiding you through writing those there's
like three little queue files to write.
Okay.
So the first thing I wanted me to
do was create multi
bucket.
Did I have the CD into that before
I run my QMod?
I don't think I yeah. No. The
you should run everything in
in the to do app directory.
Standby.
Oh, yeah.
Like I said, I installed the Mac OS
very early developer beta.
Very nice. So we we actually have this
we we had this conversation recently with the
Qdevs, but,
probably, it would be useful for us to
like, it's actually not strictly necessary to install
Q to use Dagger. It's just that at
some point, if you wanna get serious about
Dagger development,
you you probably wanna get serious about the
queue tool and all the all all it
can offer.
Like, if wanna speed things up for this
tutorial, you can you can start without installing
it and install it later,
but you're already on your way. So Yeah.
I'll just pull this then.
No. I don't save the pocket. I have
never wanted that ever. I
think you can do brew install of
q length slash
tab slash queue, and that should work.
No pressure.
That worked. Awesome. Alright.
So we What are the comments, by the
way?
You should have a speech bubble.
Well, maybe not an iPad. I'm not sure.
I'm scared I'm scared to click. Oh, I
see it. But I should I click it?
I don't know. Yeah. You can always reload
the page. What's the worst that can happen?
Oh, there it is.
Alright. Come on, queue. We wanna build a
multi bucket thing here. Alright.
So we're running QMod in it, which just
sets up some really simple directory structures for
the QModule system.
We're gonna pop back over here. We're gonna
go
beach balling. There we go.
We created that.
So now we're creating our first queue file.
So this is just source dot queue.
And I'll just do this. Did you see
the comment about the last the last line
of your terminal being hidden? It's probably thirty
minutes ago, but I did. I dragged it
up. We're we're all good.
Yeah. I do that every week because I
have a a window manager. Like, I I
come from Linux and I three is my
main working machine, but for streaming, I really
do need to use a Mac and I
I'd like things just to be full screen
all the time. And I have a window
manager that puts a full screen but adds
a border but the border is not big
enough. It's a whole thing. Oh, that's what
you were saying earlier.
Yeah.
Okay. So we got our new multi bucket
package, we're importing the Dagger engine.
We've got something called source, which we're seeing
as an artifact in Dagger and a Dagger
input.
Is an artifact something you wanna take a
minute to explain to people what that is,
or should we just accept that as it
is? Alright. Okay. Go for
it's it can't can't hurt to explain it.
I mean, that's one area we need to
explain better in the docs. Yeah. Basically,
one reason regular
CICD systems can't just haven't solved this problem
is
many of them don't have composition. But when
they do, you compose YAML values or JSON
values.
And so you can only compose things that
fit in JSON.
That includes the URL of
a source directory to download maybe,
but it doesn't include the actual
directory.
And so that means
any composition of anything that involves artifacts
needs to have first class support of artifacts
right there in the code being
composed. So you it's not enough to say,
oh, that input is a URL
of a thing to download.
Because if you say that, then you're you're
hard coding the concept that, you know, you
can only you need a third party now
to which the thing will be uploaded and
then downloaded. So you're not really covering the
full picture.
So here, what we're we're doing is we're
the the engine actually supports any value in
your tree actually being an artifact. We're representing
an artifact.
But so the but the way we do
that is it's not actually the data of
the artifact.
It's the specification
of how to produce the artifact on the
fly.
And so, for example, if the actual artifact
is,
in this case, we're basically only specifying here.
SRC
will be something that can produce an artifact
on the fly, and we're simplifying that to
an artifact. So it's really a just in
time artifact. And so what you do then
is,
as a user, you're gonna specify what that
is. And so you could say,
oh, I want SRC to be the contents
of my local directory over here. Or you
can say, actually, I want SRC to be
that remote that branch of that remote,
Git repository.
Or you could say, I want it to
be that tag at that remote
registry.
And so then we fill it in, and
we generate that, dynamically using BuildKit. So the
the as long as BuildKit support, it can
be expressed as a BuildKit pipeline.
You can make an an artifact. And because
BuildKit can
do a lot of things,
you can cover almost any possible use case
by composing these these artifacts. So it's it's
honestly, I have to find a better way
to explain it. It's just insanely powerful. Yeah.
It's what makes Dagger
just very different.
Yeah. It sounds just so
flexible.
Like, you can almost just do whatever you
need and the tools kind of stay in
that way, but providing the constructs to do
that. And I think that's really, really awesome.
Okay. It's composable. And composable. Yeah.
I mean I mean, yeah. I'm curious what
came first. Right? Was it you you obviously
had an idea to build the product and
then you made the decision to adopt Q.
Now did all of these amazing features come
out with the fact that you chose Q
or was the reason that you chose Q
because you'd already decided that composability and flexibility
were something that you needed, like
I think Andrea can answer that one better
than anyone.
Like, I mean How
Well,
I'll the the short version is Andrea basically
built
built a version pre q almost by his
by himself,
and it's
a lot of work.
I mean, is that a good summary? Yeah.
We
ended like, we were reinventing q. We we
had, like, our own made stuff, and then
suddenly we did And built in. And we
ended up yeah.
And so we're just reinventing our thing. And
and after a while, we saw we saw
queue, and we're like, okay. Like, this is
doing exactly well, not exactly. It's doing way
more than what we're, like, hacking together. So
that's when we decide to just switch over
to to using queue.
Awesome. Alright. I'm gonna copy and paste the
last couple of bits of queue here, and
then we're gonna go through exactly what is
happening. But we do have a few comments
that have come in in the last couple
of minutes. So we've got one from Amit
who's saying, thanks for the stream. Exactly what
was needed today. Awesome. Glad we could help.
Crazy Max is saying, hey. Hi, Amit.
And then now we have a question from
Moody. So would you say the Dagger is
like GitHub actions, but not tied to GitHub
or any specific provider? I
think it's it's it's a useful comparison. I
I guess it depends
what you see as the primary role of
GitHub actions. It's it's it's hard to compare
directly tools in this space because it's just
kind of a mess of partially overlapping things.
If you think of GitHub actions as
the place where you're gonna define the glue
between everything in your delivery, then yes.
If you think of GitHub actions as a
really good CI that takes your GitHub
world and makes it just really easy to
automate,
then,
then they're very complementary.
So,
yeah, I think if you took GitHub actions
and became very, very maximalist
and say, I wanna actually automate everything to
end, glue everything together with GitHub actions. Eventually,
you would run into the problem that, a,
it's not programmable, and, b, it's just tied
to GitHub. And even if there's a standalone
runner, it's always gonna be tied to GitHub.
And so
how do you integrate that into
GitLab,
Atlassian,
you know, non GitHub everywhere world?
It becomes kind of there's a lot of
friction.
So yeah.
You can use like, I would say, a
good
a huge portion of
Dagger
runs today are run inside the GitHub action,
so they they work very well together.
Nice.
Okay. I believe I've copied the appropriate steps
for our multi bucket demo here. So we
got our source dot queue, which is just
defining that we have some property called source,
which is an artifact.
We then have a yarn dot queue, which
is a has something defined as an app,
which is a yarn package
with the dependency
on our first source.
And then we have our Netlify deployment,
which defines something called a site, which has
a Netlify site
and the contents of that are one of
the output fields from our application,
which is the build.
So we can kinda see command called Dagger
doc,
which maybe you might wanna use at some
point if you're curious.
I'm always curious. Alright.
Dagger,
doc,
multi bucket. I'm just gonna make us up
there.
No.
Oh, well, I guess that could that actually
could work, but currently, it doesn't. Yeah. Currently,
it's wired to,
the the exact thing you import. It's gotta
be what you import. Ah, right. Okay. .Dagger.io.
Yeah.
Got it. Okay.
There's also a
web Nice. In that in the docs.
So it shows me the inputs that I
can use and
the different definitions. So Netlify has something called
an account, which makes sense. We then got
multiple sites we could deploy to that account
and
we have the ability to pass in our
account token via secrets and stuff like that.
Yeah. That is a pretty handy command. Nice.
I like that.
Okay. So the documentation also requested that I
now that I've copied something I don't wanna
copy, but we wanna create the new environment.
And
Okay. So
what does that actually mean to Dagger when
I create an environment? Is that just a
directory in my dot Dagger?
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah. It's basically a bug. It's it's like
a it's a it's a box to put
code in content a code in data, code
in state.
Okay. So now to
add my code to this environment,
I just copy everything
here.
And is that the, you know, the standard
way that people should think about this? Like
or would they just run the Dagger new
environment first and then actually just craft the
queue inside of there? Do you recommend keeping
it outside or
That's that's work in progress right now. We're
actually we're gonna get rid of the copy
right now. So we're trying the the the
principle is we want developing for Dagger to
be
as
identical
to
regular queue development. So if you already know
queue and you have a workflow setup,
it should be instantly recognizable
and compatible with Dagger. Right now, the the
problem is we have we we have you
put your queue files in this dot Dagger
slash n slash something slash plan,
and it actually works fine
at runtime.
But the problem is once
q modules will come out and you have
this it's like go.
That code, you might wanna make an importable
package by someone else.
And then
what what name do you give to the
module? You know? So,
basically,
the natural way for to develop something in
queue is to have it somewhere normal looking
in the in the GitHub repository in the
Git repository.
And so,
we're gonna get rid of that copy step.
So the the way you develop those queue
files instead of having you copy them into
the the environment,
now you can actually configure the environment to
load them from where you develop them. That's
actually it already works as of this
week. We just haven't changed the tutorial yet.
So
it's
both work.
Yeah. It's early days. We're figuring out the
the the perfect developer experience one step at
a time. You know? Well, yeah. And you're
adding 50 developers a day and getting feedback.
It's you know?
Right. These things take time.
So
we we don't have any more documentation here,
so we're gonna go slightly off script. But
I'm assuming,
you know, I'm trying to think about this
now. Okay? I'm I'm using us too. I
wanna start to plan The Dagger up for
me, I wouldn't expect to work right now.
Now it seems like the s three package
provider
does ship with those credentials. We do have
the key imported, but I would expect the
Netlify one to potentially fail. Is that correct?
Yeah. Actually, the s three package itself does
not ship with credentials.
It's that environment in the example repository that
we preconfigured.
Yeah. So, yeah, it will fail for the
reason you mentioned. Okay. But if you imported
s three, it would also fail.
Okay.
So when we have multiple environments, we have
to specify the environment that we wanna run.
Yeah.
And that's gonna send a plan off to
build kit. It's gonna try and do a
few things, and I'm assuming that's gonna
fail right after probably the yarn build, I
would expect.
Ideally, it would fail right away, but it's
like oh,
yeah. Perfect. Okay.
Okay. So Yeah. So exactly what you said.
Okay. So it actually wants me to provide
what source as as well. So how do
we provide inputs for Dagger? Is that through
the the CLI and not queue?
Dagger input. Yep. Correct. Alright.
So let's say we are actually
the an input is actually it's a little
configuration
telling Dagger
how to dynamically inject little bits of q.
So it's gonna be q in the end,
but Dagger will generate that queue for you
to make things easier.
Alright.
I'm just making up now, but will that
work?
Yep. No. That's perfect.
Oh, the environment. Okay.
Is it dash e for short?
Yes. Yep.
Okay. So I'm curious about that Perfect. What
that's actually changed here then. I must because
you said that input is generating queue. That's
gonna have to live somewhere.
Yep. My computer would keep up today and
maybe be able to see what that So
it
changed your values dot YAML file.
Right. Okay.
So we can Which you can you can
actually you can actually try Dagger edit.
That one, might enjoy.
Definitely do not manually edit it here because
it's it's
it's managed with SOPs. You know? So it's
all there's because of the encrypted values,
if you manually change
a part of the file without going through
Dagger edit,
the the
the hash will not match. And so it'll
say, oh, this file has been tampered with.
Alright. This computer is going to the bin
after today. Alright.
Multi bucket.
Okay. So I can modify this safely
with Dagger edit? Yes. Okay. Yep. So we've
already set that. And you can see yep.
So that's basically it's like a file representation
of of these command Dagger input commands you
typed.
Okay.
So I have two more inputs that I
need to provide in order for me to
be able to deploy this sample to do
application to Netlify.
One is account Token and Netlify.
Name.
The input
I'm wondering if I can just make this
up some more.
I have to say, I'm not sure I
would remember it, but, technically, you can.
I
think the the
you have to use the path that was
given as if, so you cannot do nesting.
So it should be, like, netrify.account.
Name and so on.
Alright. If I were you, I would do
one of those by the with the command
line, like, Dagger input something and then maybe
replicate it. That's what I do because I
never remember it.
Alright. So we want input,
notify,
dot account.
It's input. First thing you give the type
input,
That would be text. It's like a text
value.
Oh, yeah. Because we used dir previously. Okay.
Mhmm.
And I don't know what this is yet,
so I'm just make it up. Oh, yeah.
And then I'm going in here. Alright. Okay.
Yeah. So the inputs.
Oh, yeah.
Okay. So this is the type followed by
the value. Alright. Okay. Got it. Which means
we could also do
You must be just watching me going, I
really wish you would stop doing this stuff.
No. No. Actually, it's very interesting. It's good
data. Keep going.
Alright. So
I'm assuming, does it care if mine I
can't talk it as a secret or or
text?
Or does it just expect it to exist?
It does. Okay.
Yeah. Because we we if it's a secret,
we're going to secret we're gonna handle it
very differently.
But as if I provide the input as
not a secret and just I'm happy just
to to expose that, will it still work?
No. No.
Is it's gonna try and decrypt it and,
you know, it won't be a valid ciphertext.
Okay. So the
Netlify provider expects that. And in fact, if
I use the doc command, which you already
showed me, I'm assuming it probably has, yeah,
a dead sitter. Dagger dot secret. Okay.
So that means that we probably wanna do
a can It
was fine using edit. Like, you can just
type it in plain text and then Oh,
you're right. It will just encrypt it.
So Oh, I forgot about that. That's so
cool.
Okay.
Well, I mean, I I don't have a
Netlify. Should I get one? Do we actually
wanna spin this up? Or is there something
more
something Do you have an account? Yeah. Yeah.
You should spin it up. Yeah. Well, let
me give you I can give you one.
Oh.
He switched window.
No. It's it's alright. Let's let's jump to
that if I I've I've got a login.
Yeah. Let's see if we can deploy our
application.
Welcome back. I'm fine. I'm back.
Alright. We were enjoying you on mute. So
log in.
Sam and Andrea like to make fun of
my iPad setup, so I'm gonna hear about
this for days.
You know what? It's been working a lot
better than my Mac setup. So
so how do I I think you should
click on your on your user icon on
the top right.
And,
yeah, you should see user settings.
Yeah.
And applications,
perhaps,
and personal access tokens. And if you generate
one, go.
There we go.
You've all got ten minutes if you wanted
to play stuff to my. There we go.
Go.
I did that with an Equinix Metals token
one day where I created a Kubernetes cluster,
and I said I'm gonna be so disappointed
if there's not a crypto miner running on
us in thirty minutes, and there wasn't.
Alright. So we've provided the token. I'm gonna
run a edit.
Okay. And now we can see
the secret token.
The account name, I mean, that is Rawkode.
Right? That's just my actual account name. It's
not like a site name or anything like
that. Okay.
Yeah. I think actually the account name, that's
actually optional because account name, that's when you
have a team, I think.
Oh, no. No.
Yeah. Site Name, you need. That's the site
that's the site name.
Site.account.name,
that's that that's what they call a team.
And I think by default, you just wanna
leave that empty.
Okay. So that's right there. Your your personal
team. That that's I guess we should change
that to team because it's it makes sense
to Oh. I think a coding style for
the standard library should be use whatever terms
the native service uses. Yeah.
Yeah. I think all the inputs should have
been prefixed with side notes. So if you're
on edit, you should be able to
like, just Dagger
edit, and you should be able to change
that in batch.
I don't know why I did there.
Yeah. Let's let's do that. Okay. So we
expect
is that just me failing to be able
to paste now?
I really am on fire today. There we
go.
Okay. Let's take that one out. Oh, I
see. Yeah.
But then net there's no
is that Netlify?
Is it site dot Netlify?
That's what the output side. I'm not yeah.
I wanted site Netlify account token to site,
let define name Oh, okay. Which I believe
I've now set appropriately.
And we're gonna run the Dagger up, and
we're gonna see if we get us to
do application deployed to Netlify.
Nice.
One note. If let's say you're setting that
up for a team,
this this setup you could do once. And
because the values are encrypted, you can commit
it and share in the repo.
And then
downstream from you, app developers who just wanna
deploy to that to Netlify to, like, let's
say, shared Netlify account,
those inputs will be preconfigured for them.
I mean, is it safe for those like,
say, I wanted to just Multi tenancy. Deploy
my own blog with Dagger and the repository's
open source. It's public. I mean, is that
is it safe because of that encryption for
me to do that as long as I
don't give anyone access to my private key?
Yes. Yes. Just don't give access to the
the key.
Is there a plan for I mean, I
mean, you know, you should apply you should
apply common common sense additional layers. Like, if
it's a critical credential,
you should prepare for the possibility that the
key is leaked
anyway as some you know what I mean?
So Yeah.
Just apply
security common sense. But, yes, it it it
is
I mean, it the the project is very
robust,
so it is safe to commit
credentials
encrypted with SOPs and age
on the Git repo.
Yeah. In fact, this is actually my exact
next question, and I think this answers already
for me. But the secret back end can
be swapped out for cloud KMS as well.
Right?
Yes.
Alright. That's pretty sweet.
Now we just need a one password option,
and then I can do everything on my
local machine. That would be pretty cool too.
Oh, that's cool. Yeah.
Yeah. Actually, it would be nice to to
have, you know, pluggable back ends so that
you can use your favorite KMS and,
you know, just pick your back end. We
did that in a in a past version
before open sourcing, so we'll have to bring
it back.
Yeah. Well, I can't use Google Cloud's key
KMS key, whatever they call it, because it
doesn't allow you to delete the key rings
when you're done with it, and I just
can't handle it. So I always end up
using AWS just for their KMS but then
deploying other stuff to Google.
Just weird little annoyances. But yeah, one password
on here would be pretty sweet. Although age
is a pretty good way to do it
as well. I could store that key somewhere.
Alright. Let's see. We're doing a a yarn
step, so this may take a either a
few minutes or a few hours. We'll just
need to wait and see.
Again.
So I'm curious about the different environments. I'm
assuming because the input has changed that does
it know that the inputs don't affect the
YARN build? Could that have been cached or
are environments all the caching happened per environment?
Should have been Caching shared. Assuming that
yep.
Although, I'm assuming here, there might have been
some modifications or something going on. But, yeah,
in theory,
this should have been like a no op.
We should have just, you know, not built
anything.
And that's because it doesn't require anything environment
specific that the build step itself should have
been shared across different environments.
Yeah. Actually, it's shared across the entire, like,
build kit instance. It could be, like, your
cache, but it could also be, like, someone
else's. Like, if you share a a build
kit server, could be your entire team or
coworkers. Yeah. Oh, nice.
Do a lot of cool stuff on the
infrastructure side.
Yeah. I'll just assume my Versus code. Netflix.
Sorry.
I'll figure Netflix, they use Bill Kit,
a lot.
They they do a lot of for building.
And and, you know, they have
build kit clusters backed by container d clusters,
and and so you get some some pretty
amazing
you know, it scales up really nicely because
both build kit and container d are
really well engineered, and they got a lot
of usage.
And so you can just you can do
some some pretty
impressive
stuff, and and so we just piggyback on
all of that. So
Nice.
Alright. Audience,
last chance for questions. We'll be finishing up
just after we hopefully see our Netlify Netlify
site here deployed,
which I'm pretty confident about. I'm sure
it should be good. I'll assume the cache
here wasn't used probably just because of my
Versus codes modifying or doing stuff in the
background.
Yeah.
I don't know why.
I think Is it is it the queues
queue files? Yeah. Yeah. I think because the
input is dot, and since we put, like,
the queue files,
we we want to change the cache. Yeah.
There we go. Yeah. That yeah. In theory
yep.
Yeah. I think if we remove them and
Dagger up again, it should be cached, but
I'm not gonna
I think we're too close now. Let's just
let it go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We we
should auto auto exclude them. Right? Because Bill
Kit you can tell Bill Kit to exclude
certain patterns from
from a local directory. So I guess we
could we could
we could do that. Queue dot mods.
Maybe if if dot Dagger We can even
be more specific. We could say ignore only
the queue files, which are part of the
plan, which you're currently executing.
Ah.
Cool.
Alright. Let's see. It seems to have already
fetched the dependencies.
Let's do the linking step, which I've never
understood with node.
Hopefully, we got a nice pretty quick build.
So this is the build of the actual
to do app?
It is. It looks like it to me.
It's crazy.
My computer is
I don't know what's going on with it
today, but last week or two, and it
does slow down a lot. I'm not sure
what I've got running. I feel like we're
we're at a point where web builds are
just so ridiculously long that there's a whole
feel and innovation in making really cool progress
bars for web builds.
Like, really slick. That's not healthy.
Really, what I should just do is get
an iPad and use GitHub code spaces and
not have anything running locally except my streaming
software. I think I'm now sold on that
idea.
That's what I do. Yeah. Exactly. Let the
cloud deal with this. Why am why am
I running Docker on my local machine?
Well, does GitHub space they have an an
editor. Right? Yeah. Yeah. You gotta fill a
Versus code, web based Versus code. So it's
really good, actually. And it syncs with all
your settings locally. So, like, whenever I open
code spaces, I get the exact same Versus
code with the same extensions with the same
color theme. Like, it's really impressive.
Wow. I use VI and SSH, so I
I
that's also something
Andrew and Sam like to make fun of.
But
I I I used to be a new
low maintenance.
I like NeoVim,
but the the Versus code with the language
server protocol stuff just, like, blew me away
when I first tried it. And I know
that NeoVim now has quite good language server
protocol support, but I kinda got I got
used to Versus code. I actually quite like
it.
I I hear ads for Versus Code every
morning when I log in.
Alright.
This may or may not finish. So we
got a comment from Crazy Max saying, yeah,
they do. Netflix do contribute to build kit.
There you go.
Yeah.
We can
and we bother them a lot.
Oh, it's there. We did we did hit
we did hit a lot of, well, not
a lot. We did a few build kit
bugs.
When when you're hitting bill kit bugs, you
know you're you're really
a serious bill kit user user because bill
kit doesn't have a lot of bugs generally.
That and you're using the queue, which I
I'm sure Marcel would say queue is still
prey early in the adoption cycle, so you're
kinda
making maybe Queue has more bugs,
but they fix them really fast. No. But
they, you know, they they they fix them
really fast, so it's it's a it's a
good combination.
Alright. Is is this
has it worked?
Is this the Netlify? It looks like oh,
that's actually so that's the the initial build
of the Netlify container. So the the container
that will run run the Netlify upload.
Alright. Okay. Okay. Because when you're when you
develop a package, like, you you decide actually,
we may actually have to set a convention
for that, you know, like, official
repositories in in Linux distros. Everything has to
be built from scratch in a reproducible way.
Like, we we will probably end up imposing
a rule like that for official upstream packages.
But in theory, you could have a package
that
just
you know, there's a docker pull on a
binary image and then just runs it. You
don't have to build on the fly,
but probably
you you should if you're serious about your
your,
being able to trace your supply chain because
then you can see what's going on end
to end. Right?
Yeah. The sec store project, I think, is
really exciting for that whole supply chain thing
right now. They've got the new
software bill of manifest or materials support that
they've been working on, which I think is
really, really, really, really cool.
Oh, what project is that? A six store.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. I I I see what
you're talking about. Yeah. It's a You know,
there's a whole little group of people on
the on the, Dagger Discord that are really
ex you know, really focused on on that,
the software bill of materials and,
just the new requirements coming up for it
in The US, you know,
for federal contractors.
So it seemed like a lot of vendors
are getting excited about that.
I'm really starting to dislike this error message
from you, Aaron.
And now thinking that someone should invent BuildKit
as a service so that all this stuff
just runs on someone else's computer for me.
I guess that's what you were saying about
the team.
Sorry. Here you go.
No. I agree. I agree.
Yeah.
I mean, I do have access to bare
metal. I work for Echo XPEL. I should
just spin up a really beefy box running
build kit and expose myself a little Yeah.
Docker host thing. You should. I mean, the
the first cloud provider that does that, we
will
we will
point Dagger users to it because we're not
that's not how we're gonna make money.
You know, I think Google Cloud had a
maybe they still do. There was an attempt
at doing that for Bazel.
But the problem, I think,
for Bazel is it's really, really hard and
high friction to go for to to to
do remote execution. It doesn't you can't switch
it on on demand.
But with Bill Kit, you can.
Alright. Well, we'll give this a few more
minutes to finish. Why don't we have a
quick chat just before we wrap up then
and maybe you can kinda let me just
pop this back over here. Maybe you can
share with us what's what's coming next for
for Dagger. Like, where are you and the
like, are you pushing towards beta? When should
people expect GA as our new any features
providers are coming? You wanna give us the
the quick road map?
Yeah. Sure. So the road map is,
you know, we started opening up to we're
running towards private beta.
You know, we're sort of transitioning from alpha
to beta. I'm not sure where the cutoff
is, but
we're bringing in all these people that that
are asking for access, and we're
getting feedback and fixing.
So the goal is to have some sort
of publicly available beta in the fall, I
guess. You know? Can't really launch in the
summer anyway.
So we're just gonna
improve as much as we can and get
as many testers as we can
and then fix things as they break.
There is some major UX improvements. You know,
we we need to finish the UX.
It's still pretty rough,
and we need to get kind of everything
in order, and then we'll launch.
Yeah. And then from there,
we'll see.
We also wanna make it clear from the
start where the the cloud service fits, and
we wanna be very transparent with the community
early on because
I think confusion on where the open source
part ends and where the cloud and proprietary
part starts,
that cause problems down the road. So we
wanna avoid that.
And, you know, I think everyone can agree.
If it's if you like the project, then
you probably want the people building the project
to make money in a healthy way so
that the project doesn't die. So we're gonna
test all of that and roll it out.
So, yeah, roughly,
in the fall, things will open up a
lot. And if people wanna play over the
summer, they should subscribe now or they should
register now, and, we'll let them in at
a rate of 50 people per day.
And,
again, get up if you're listening.
Yeah. That's that's that's the that's the road
map.
Awesome. Pretty simple.
Well, I mean, I'm looking at this, and
I I don't think this is gonna finish.
So
I I I think it's What's the problem
now?
I think it's just my computer. I think
it's just going to slow. So
what I'll do is I'll play around with
this another day on another session and and
try and do something a bit more fun
with it. I've been meaning to migrate my
blog over to it anyway and actually deploy
it that way. So yeah.
I'll blame my computer for now. On the
fly Docker Compose to Kubernetes
synchronization or something like that.
Yeah. And then go to Lambda.
Can I deploy to Kubernetes yet? Does Dagger
do?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You
can deploy to Kubernetes and ECS in parallel,
and you can have you can have cross
cloud deployments. You can have lots of cool
stuff. Alright. Well, clearly there's a lot more
fun to be had playing with Dagger, so
I'm sure this will not be the last
stream where I'm messing around with it. But
I wanna thank you both for joining me
today. It's been a bit of time just
sharing your knowledge or expertise or the history.
All of that is is really cool and
getting a look at how Dagger uses Q
and BuildKit was a whole lot of fun.
For the people watching Thanks for having us.
A last reminder, the Solomon is on the
podcast on Thursday. Check it out on Twitter.
Alright. Well,
thanks again. Any last words before we we
we set ways?
Come check it out. Write code. Try and
come and break it. Help us fix it.
Alright. Yeah. Check out Dagger. Thanks for your
time. Dagger.io.
Sign up. Have some fun. And again, thank
you. Have
a great day.
Bye.
Bye bye.